Relational databases: Store structured data, meaning the data inserted into this database follows a structure. For example, the data collected on a user consists of first_name, last_name, email_address, username and password. When a new user joins, an entry is made in the database following this structure. This structured data is stored in rows and columns in a table (all of which will be covered shortly); relationships can then be made between two or more tables (for example, user and order_history), hence the term relational databases.

Non-relational databases: Instead of storing data the above way, store data in a non-tabular format. For example, if documents are being scanned, which can contain varying types and quantities of data, and are stored in a database that calls for a non-tabular format. Here is an example of what that might look like: 

Primary Keys: A primary key is used to ensure that the data collected in a certain column is unique. That is, there needs to be a way to identify each record stored in a table, a value unique to that record and is not repeated by any other record in that table.

Foreign Keys: A foreign key is a column (or columns) in a table that also exists in another table within the database, and therefore provides a link between the two tables. 

THM{575a947132312f97b30ee5aeebba629b723d30f9
THM{692aa7eaec2a2a827f4d1a8bed1f90e5e49d2410

CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, and Delete, which are considered the basic operations in any system that manages data.

CREATE DATABASE thm_bookmarket_db;
CREATE TABLE book_inventory (
    book_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    book_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    publication_date DATE
);
CREATE TABLE book_inventory (
    book_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    book_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    publication_date DATE
);
ALTER TABLE book_inventory
ADD page_count INT;

The Create operation will create new records in a table. In MySQL, this can be achieved by using the statement INSERT INTO.
 INSERT INTO books (id, name, published_date, description)
    VALUES (1, "Android Security Internals", "2014-10-14", "An In-Depth Guide to Android's Security Architecture");
The Read operation, as the name suggests, is used to read or retrieve information from a table. We can fetch a column or all columns from a table with the SELECT statement
The Update operation modifies an existing record within a table, and the same statement, UPDATE
UPDATE books
    SET description = "An In-Depth Guide to Android's Security Architecture."
    WHERE id = 1;

The delete operation removes records from a table. We can achieve this with the DELETE statement.
DELETE FROM books WHERE id = 1;


The DISTINCT clause is used to avoid duplicate records when doing a query, returning only unique values.

The GROUP BY clause aggregates data from multiple records and groups the query results in columns. This can be helpful for aggregating functions.

The GROUP BY clause aggregates data from multiple records and groups the query results in columns. This can be helpful for aggregating functions.

The HAVING clause is used with other clauses to filter groups or results of records based on a condition. In the case of GROUP BY, it evaluates the condition to TRUE or FALSE, unlike the WHERE clause HAVING filters the results after the aggregation is performed.

SELECT *FROM hacking_tools ORDER BY name ASC;

Logical Operators
These operators test the truth of a condition and return a boolean value of TRUE or FALSE
LIKE Operator
The LIKE operator is commonly used in conjunction with clauses like WHERE in order to filter for specific patterns within a column. 
AND Operator
The AND operator uses multiple conditions within a query and returns TRUE if all of them are true.
OR Operator
The OR operator combines multiple conditions within queries and returns TRUE if at least one of these conditions is true.
NOT Operator
The NOT operator reverses the value of a boolean operator, allowing us to exclude a specific condition.
BETWEEN Operator
The BETWEEN operator allows us to test if a value exists within a defined range.
Equal To Operator
The = (Equal) operator compares two expressions and determines if they are equal, or it can check if a value matches another one in a specific column.
Not Equal To Operator
The != (not equal) operator compares expressions and tests if they are not equal; it also checks if a value differs from the one within a column.
Less Than Operator
The < (less than) operator compares if the expression with a given value is lesser than the provided one.
Greater Than Operator
The > (greater than) operator compares if the expression with a given value is greater than the provided one.
ess Than or Equal To and Greater  Than or Equal To Operators
The <= (Less than or equal) operator compares if the expression with a given value is less than or equal to the provided one. On the other hand, The >= (Greater than or Equal) operator compares if the expression with a given value is greater than or equal to the provided one. Let's observe some examples of both below.


SELECT *FROM hacking_tools WHERE category = 'Multi-tool';
SELECT category FROM hacking_tools WHERE amount >= 300;
SELECT name FROM hacking_tools WHERE amount < 100 AND category= 'Network Intelligence';

CONCAT() Function
This function is used to add two or more strings together. It is useful to combine text from different columns.
GROUP_CONCAT() Function
This function can help us to concatenate data from multiple rows into one field. Let's explore an example of its usage.
SUBSTRING() Function
This function will retrieve a substring from a string within a query, starting at a determined position. The length of this substring can also be specified.
LENGTH() Function
This function returns the number of characters in a string. This includes spaces and punctuation. 
COUNT() Function
This function returns the number of records within an expression
GROUP_CONCAT() Function
This function can help us to concatenate data from multiple rows into one field.
SUBSTRING() Function
This function will retrieve a substring from a string within a query, starting at a determined position. 
LENGTH() Function
This function returns the number of characters in a string. This includes spaces and punctuation.
MIN() Function
This function calculates the minimum value within a provided column in an expression.
MAX() Function
This function calculates the maximum value within a provided column in an expression.
SUM() Function
This function sums all values (not NULL) of a determined column.

SELECT name, LENGTH(name) AS name_length FROM hacking_tools ORDER BY name_length ASC;
SELECT SUM(amount) AS total FROM hacking_tools;
SELECT CONCAT(name, "&", category, " book.") AS book_info FROM books;
SELECT GROUP_CONCAT(name, '&') AS conc FROM hacking_tools WHERE amount % 10 != 0;